scripts/staar/README.md, before:

---

## The pipeline is composed by using [https://github.com/xihaoli/STAAR](STAAR), and the scripts are midified from [https://github.com/xihaoli/STAARpipeline-Tutorial](STAARpipeline-Tutorial).

## Files Description
### Preproperation
- Download FAVORdatabase_chrsplit.csv from [https://github.com/xihaoli/STAARpipeline-Tutorial/blob/main/FAVORannotator_csv/](STAARpipeline-Tutorial).

### Input file
- Per chromosome VCF from [scripts/vcf_preparation/README.md](vcf_preparation) step

### Output file
- gds, pcari.rds, pcrel.gds, king.rds, pc.csv, .nullModel.rds, assoc.rds and assoc.csv

---

### Execution

1. Generate GDS  [scripts/single_variant_assoc/generate_gds.R](generate_gds.R)
	- VCFs should be named by chr#.vcf.gz
2. Perform a Principal Components Analysis [scripts/single_variant_assoc/pcair.maf5.R](pcair.maf5.R)
	- PC-AiR accounts for sample relatedness (known or cryptic) to provide accurate ancestry inference.
	- Sample Annot file is tab-delimited with a header, consisting of sample.id, Population, SuperPopulation, and Project.
	- The analysis will only use sample.id in the annot file.
3. Generate null model [scripts/single_variant_assoc/nullModel.maf5.R](nullModel.maf5.R)
	- fitNullModel fits a model with random effects specified by covariance structures.
	- fitNullModel allows for the inclusion of a polygenic random effect using a kinship matrix or genetic relationship matrix (GRM).
	- Pheno file is tab-delimited consisting of covariant with a header.
4. Perform association tests [scripts/single_variant_assoc/assoc.chr.R](assoc.chr.R)
	- assocTestSingle performs genotype association tests with the outcome using the null model obtained from Step 3.

---

## Dependencies
### Tools
- Biobase
- dplyr
- GENESIS
- GGally
- SeqArray
- SeqVarTools

Commit message:

Modify README and Varinfo_gds.R take whole-genome GDS

scripts/staar/README.md, after:

---

The pipeline is composed by using [STAAR](https://github.com/xihaoli/STAAR), and the scripts are midified from [STAARpipeline-Tutorial](https://github.com/xihaoli/STAARpipeline-Tutorial).

## Files Description
### Preproperation
- Download FAVORdatabase_chrsplit.csv from [STAARpipeline-Tutorial](https://github.com/xihaoli/STAARpipeline-Tutorial/blob/main/FAVORannotator_csv/).

### Input file
- The GDS generated by [vcf_preparation](scripts/vcf_preparation/README.md) step

### Output file
- gds, pcari.rds, pcrel.gds, king.rds, pc.csv, .nullModel.rds, assoc.rds and assoc.csv

---

### Execution

1. For each chromosome, generate multiple csv files for variants [Varinfo_gds.R](scripts/staar/Varinfo_gds.R)
2. Perform a Principal Components Analysis [scripts/single_variant_assoc/pcair.maf5.R](pcair.maf5.R)
	- PC-AiR accounts for sample relatedness (known or cryptic) to provide accurate ancestry inference.
	- Sample Annot file is tab-delimited with a header, consisting of sample.id, Population, SuperPopulation, and Project.
	- The analysis will only use sample.id in the annot file.
3. Generate null model [scripts/single_variant_assoc/nullModel.maf5.R](nullModel.maf5.R)
	- fitNullModel fits a model with random effects specified by covariance structures.
	- fitNullModel allows for the inclusion of a polygenic random effect using a kinship matrix or genetic relationship matrix (GRM).
	- Pheno file is tab-delimited consisting of covariant with a header.
4. Perform association tests [scripts/single_variant_assoc/assoc.chr.R](assoc.chr.R)
	- assocTestSingle performs genotype association tests with the outcome using the null model obtained from Step 3.

---

## Dependencies
### Tools
- Biobase
- dplyr
- GENESIS
- GGally
- SeqArray
- SeqVarTools
